yo what up um I'm not a nice guy one of
the things that some people reacted to
in a really extreme way when I was
living in Southeast Asia I'm talking
about Westerners who were also living
Southeast Asia was my openly telling
them I am NOT a nice guy do not depend
on me to do the things that you expect a
nice guy to do now the other Westerners
who are living with me in Asia some were
from Australia some were from England a
few from Canada in the United States but
you know like there are Australians who
if they think of you as a nice guy they
expect you to come out to the pub and
play billiards with them on short notice
you know there were British guys too who
would think you know they'd meet me uh
and I guess their impression of me would
be of a kind of a know masculine guy I
mean you know I'm not gay and you know
they would think I was gonna show up and
watch football with them at the pub
sometime and you know they sound may
sound like a small thing but it's really
not I may be not what people expect for
a bookish intellectual yeah I wish these
were props in the background but I mean
I had to communicate to people the life
I'm living out here
I'm not on vacation I'm not a nice guy I
don't do any of the things you do with
your time I don't make any other
compromises you make with your time in
terms of ethical compromises I've said
before it's not a good thing to be an
uncompromising character it means you're
a jerk in terms of the other Westerners
living in in Asia including great
scholars men with PhD and so on a lot of
those guys are going to brothels a lot
of them were sleeping with prostitutes
now again I did not want to be a
complete jerk about it but those are
compromises I was not willing to make so
you know why would you advertise the
fact that you're not a nice guy it's
because you're living in a cultural
context
you understand what being a nice guy
means and you understand that you're not
going to live up those expectations and
you know that can really just be someone
coming around and and knocking on your
door and saying hey you know are you
gonna come out and play billiards
tonight and for them you know they
really expect that would be normal for
someone like you for who they expect you
to be I say this in pro you'd uh I don't
know there are there are all kinds of
different people who get attracted to
veganism and you know most of us are not
nice guys I've said before there's a
sort of Catholicism element to this
there's a very moral overbearing element
of ethical veganism and I like to think
I'm less of a jerk about it because I'm
really aware of it I'm aware of you know
when I'm imposing on others and when I'm
really behaving in a way that's wildly
unexpected from a Western cultural
perspective or an Eastern cultural
perspective like when I was in Taiwan
Taiwan has a very strong tradition of
vegetarian and V vegetarianism and
veganism but it's attached to religions
that I'm not a part of and you know I'd
meet people who would look at me with
like pity when they found out I was
vegan they'd be like oh you you poor
thing you're a victim of one of these
ridiculous cults and you you know you
believe in your your grandparents
haunting you as ghosts or something
which people do I mean I've met people
who really believe in hidden ghosts in
that emotionally immediate way where you
know ghosts are no joke where ghosts are
a part of their daily lives in rituals
and in their beliefs and in their
interpretation of their dreams and where
they actually go and speak to you know a
specialist to deal with hauntings and
you know they perceive themselves as
living in a world where ghosts are real
whether that's under the heading of
Buddhism or Taoism or some other
religion and of course veganism what
makes this especially strange is that
there are so many people declaring
veganism is all about compassion it's
all about being a nice
person and a loving person and a good
person in in a certain sense the kindly
old cat lady the person who keeps pets
and cuddles them and so on and of course
there are different people playing
different angles in terms of yoga I mean
specifically selling yoga for weight
loss
I mean selling bicycles for weight loss
and you know bicycle says but I mean the
whole yoga contingent and the vague
dotted lines connecting veganism exist
today to a kind of watered-down
westernized Hinduism that's that's very
real I wouldn't I wouldn't underestimate
the short-term or long-term implications
of that I'm gonna be interested to see
in the next 10 years I think a lot of
the action in veganism worldwide is
gonna come from Hindus Hindus and people
who are culturally Hindu but who may not
believe in any particular God or
anything supernatural but who grow up
with the idea that killing a cow is a
significant act and who can then build
on that pretty easily to a critique of
the dairy industry critique of the meat
industry I'm wondering what happens next
and you know I've gotten fan mail from
some people who are self-critical also
because get my my opening point here is
I'm aware of flaws in my character
things that are socially perceived as
bad as flaws things that make me a bit
of an uncompromising character a bit of
a jerk
I have likewise received some email from
people who are self-critical and who can
recognize that they themselves really
are a bit of a crazy old cat lady I
would use pretty much those words they
say well you know I am the kind of
person who has cooped up in a house full
of animals and people do perceive me as
eccentric because I'm such an animal
lover and this is how I came to veganism
and so on but I can still perceive these
are problems x y&z now under this
heading the heading of me being a jerk I
can really recognize why someone like
durianrider gets on to his
harden up kick harden the blank up I
myself do not like excuses now likewise
some of the excuses people make for
meat-eating really bother me of course I
disagree with them rationally but my
point here is in terms of the side of my
character that's very uncompromising
very moralizing and a bit of a jerk
I also react emotionally I react
irrationally in addition to my
rationally held understanding of the
world
something I would compare that to living
in Canada I am exposed to a lot of
racism against First Nations people in
Canada First Nations what we call our
indigenous people equivalent to the term
American Indians in America but believe
it or not they don't come from India so
anyway we say First Nations and now of
course when I react to that when white
people are making excuses for genocide
when white people are making excuses for
bad legal policies we've had in candid
in the recent past or bad laws we still
have currently the dire situation First
Nations are often in I am partly
reacting rationally because this is
something I've studied this and I have
cared about for a lot of my life it's
something have an informed opinion on
but I'm also partly reacting
irrationally I'm partly reacting
emotionally and I do not see any reason
to mask that reaction I remember a guy
who was vegetarian not vegan a Canadian
guy who visited me in Taiwan strange
situation maybe and you know he was
responding with complete in
comprehension to my being angry and
being openly angry in response to what
he said about First Nations I said to
him do you think I would be ashamed to
be angry when what you have said is pro
genocide you know yes I'm angry yes what
you're saying makes me angry and I could
conceal that I'm quite capable of
stifling that bathing another way but
you're a guest in my house and I'm
letting you know
openly you know both that I disagree
with you rationally and that this makes
me angry
as an adult these are the sort of social
tight ropes we all walk on but I would
like to think that one of the rather
deep differences between myself and
Harley aka durianrider is that I do not
have this misconception that telling
people to harden up will solve the
problem it's really kind of similar to
telling people to smarten up I'm just
telling you to heart it up it presumes
that you already understand what the
problem is you already understand what
the solution is and all that's lacking
is for you to have the will to solve it
for you to have the resolution to do
what it takes to harden up smarten up is
similar if I tell you to smarten up and
solve a problem then nothing else needs
to be explained to you you don't need to
be convinced and there's also nothing
lacking in terms of your ability it's a
very peculiar example of that actually
and the advice that durianrider gave to
to Jo best and you know his advice
didn't work you can tell Jo best to
harden up ten times or 20 times you can
tell them not to be weak you can tell
them to think like a champion in that
situation ultimately I've got more
sympathy for Jo best because he's open
about the fact that there are some
things he can't do there's some things
he struggles with psychologically
compulsive eating there's some
weaknesses he has and just telling him
to harden up won't solve the problem
won't help him be vegan won't help him
lose weight or anything else but it's
veganism that work we're debating here
and there are a lot of people in that
situation in Jo best case he has a long
history he used to talk about of going
to a sham and religious leaders in in
India and so on and I'm sure many of
them gave him equally bad advice of
different kinds but no just telling
people to harden up and do what they
supposedly already know to do is is not
going to solve that problem if I meet
someone in Canada who is from my
perspective racist but they do not
perceive themselves as racist they do
not perceive themselves as being Pro
genocide or against First Nations
it doesn't help anything for me to say
to them
hard it up smarten up you know be hard
be resolute or what have you recently I
went into a menswear shop a very large
menswear shop selling you know suits and
ties men's formalwear and it was out in
the suburbs that's why was large it
wasn't a shop downtown here and I just
walked up to the guy in charge the
manager and I said well look I'm vegan I
know that 90% of what you've got here is
wool so can you direct me to whatever
you have in the shop that's made out of
cotton or polyester or cotton polyester
yeah you know I went in there expecting
90 percent or 95 percent of what they
had to be made out of wool but in fact
this guy revealed that 100 percent of
what they had in the shop was made of
wool that didn't make me angry what made
me angry were the excuses he started to
offer me after that as I say this
explains part of why I am vegan but this
is not really a redeeming side of my
character it's not the fact of the
situation if that this guy was going on
to try to explain to me that it was not
practical to make men's clothing out of
cotton or polyester that there were
supposedly laws of physics unknown to me
that made wool a superior material in so
many ways and that really you know human
beings can't exist without using wool
now I did not show my anger I felt angry
but I remained cordial and relaxed I
said to him well you know a lot of
people say that but you you may not have
noticed the military today they don't
make anything out of wool you know what
the Navy a hundred years ago everything
was wool and today none of it is you
know why do you why do you think that is
if wool were really the super material
you're describing if it was really the
solution to so many problems you know US
Marine Corps would be using wool and
they're not and he laughed in my face
and he said oh that's just because
budget isn't high enough it's too
expensive use wool now I did not respond
to that angrily but that does anger me
even though it may be a small thing he's
making excuses for for me I really react
negatively to hearing people make these
kind of excuses justifications it's bad
in itself and that whole tendency of
mine leads to other really bad things
now I felt like laughing in his face and
saying to him you think the US Marine
Corps lacks the budget to buy wool shop
there are tons of cheap wool suits in
this shop but I did not say that him I
went on to say well you know luxury
mountain climbing gear so this is a on
the spot I only came of this half and
second but what I said to him reacting
meal it was luxury mountain climbing
gear is no longer made at a wool it was
a hundred years ago I think it was even
twenty years ago when I was a kid but
you know the stuff they sell them on
clearance now none of it is wool because
wool is not really a practical material
for this sort of thing
now I digress I did not say this at the
time if you have ever taken wool and try
to wash it with soap and water and then
dry it
that alone would convince you I mean in
contrast to cotton and polyester and
other conventional materials wool is
incredibly fussy to maintain or keep
working over any length of time
especially if you have friction involved
but just washing and drying it is a
nightmare apart from the ethical
perspective on this and I am NOT gonna
splice it images of this but you can see
both still photographs and video from
the reality of wool production that will
give you nightmares for years
it is a horrifyingly brutal process and
it includes things like skinning calves
sorry skinning sheep alive which is
something I have seen done in Europe
always this mystique about the Orient
where people imagine the treatment of
animals is much more brutal in China you
know if the fur industry is worse
in Asia than it is in Norway yeah well
you can watch the video and they're
doing the same things to animals in
Norway that they do in China and ye gods
I've seen images from Spain and other
parts of Europe and what they do to
sheep and producing wool and related
products the human mind cannot devise
worse atrocities against animals neither
and in Asia nor in Europe
ok but look I know I'm not making the
parallelism completely clear I walk into
this shop I look at the wool hanging on
the shelves hanging on the walls and to
me it's just as bad as seeing the
corpses of dead animals on the walls but
to everyone else in the shop it's
invisible they don't think they're doing
any harm and you know wool doesn't smell
bad it doesn't smell like a rotting
animal corpse it's not like buying a
lobster a lobster has eyes and legs and
you can see the lobster used to be alive
and now it's a dead animal with wool
everything kind of evil and repugnant
about it is invisible and the people who
are participating in this culture it's
not a subculture it's a mainstream
culture again at the idea that wool is
completely necessary for respectable
men's wear even though it's totally
impractical the only way to be a
respectable businessman and go to the
offices to wear a wool suit is a
cultural delusion in no way functional
to them the moral problem is invisible
and it is completely impossible for me
to say to them as durianrider would say
harden up harden the [ __ ] up you know it
would be completely useless because they
don't see the problem be useless to me
to say to them smarten up do the smart
thing you're dealing with a level of
voluntary ignorance and excuse making
being very deeply trammeled into people
and embraced by people I mean you know
there they are embracing it it's very
hard to negotiate very hard to cope with
and as I say for me I have a rational
reaction to it
but I also have an emotional reaction to
it and here in Canada I can tell you
that is similar to when you talk to a
white person and they say I see no
reason why our tax dollars should spend
more on indigenous people on First
Nations than we do want white people we
should all be equal we should just break
all of the laws get rid of the treaty
obligations
you know like seriously you meet and
talk to white people in Canada who
believe that the laws are racist against
white people that white people are a
disadvantage compared to First Nations
you know because in theory of First
Nations person can get tuition free
access to universities under certain
circumstances meet anyone who's gone
through the bureaucratic process to get
that free tuition yeah it's basically
like a special scholarship to say sorry
sorry about what we did to you over the
last 400 years you know those people
these white people who say these things
who have these justifications excuse
about First Nations they do not perceive
themselves as racist they do not
perceive themselves as part of the
problem they do not perceive themselves
as doing something immoral and that is
why it is completely useless to say to
them harden up smarten up do better or
do the right thing
and it is even really pretty
counterproductive most of the time to
get angry at them and I can understand I
can sympathize with the perspective
they're coming from because I was raised
in this culture too I was raised with
delusions about wool and leather and
First Nations people and the British
Empire and the history of colonial
colonialism and the glorious history of
Canada is the country now Canada is
supposedly so morally superior the
United States you don't know we were
raised with these delusions here in
Canada
and coming back to my very first point I
can also recognize that what makes me
different from these people my fellow
Canadians my fellow wool wearing
conservative voting Canadians who you
know think there's nothing wrong with I
don't know putting First Nations into a
box or whatever I can recognize that
what makes me different from them does
not make me better than that a lot of
the character traits that led me out of
that delusion that led me to question
those assumptions are exactly the
character traits that to be blunt make
me a jerk